Zambia is a landlocked country in southern Africa and it's bordered by eight other countries.
It has a population of 14.5 million and we have 180,000 witnesses.
That's one witness for every 82 people.
In the last two years, 13,500 were baptized.
That's an average of 19 each day.
And as prospects for more, we have 400,000 Bible studies.
Our memorial attendance this year was 802,000 that's one person out of every 18 in the country.
So you can see that Zambia really is ripe for harvesting.
To handle it, we've built 1,800 kingdom halls.
Now some brothers ask us, why is Zambia so productive?
Well, it's a very fertile country in the sense that people are humble, friendly and God-fearing.
And Jehovah's blessing the efforts of the publishers, the average 11 and a half hours,
and we've got 13,847 regular pioneers.
So it's Jehovah's blessing really, but it's the people.
Another contributing factor is that people are getting publications in their own language.
At present, we're translating in 18 languages at 10 locations, remote translation offices,
and summer in the branch.
When people get the literature in their own tongue, it really goes right to their heart.
One old man received a publication in his language, and when he got it, he said, at last,
this is the treasure that I've been looking for.
And he sat down and he read it on the spot by the end of the day, he'd finished a Bible
study was started, and it's progressing nicely, and he's asking for more treasure.
One of the highlights of 2014 was when brother Stephen Let came to release a new world translation
in two languages, the Ki Kaundi language and the Chitonga language.
He gave his talks to an excited audience, a combined audience of 95,000, making this
the largest conventions ambias ever seen.
Another milestone was when brother Lush came to release another Bible in the vernacular
language, the Lou Valley language, and at the same time, he dedicated our first purpose-built
remote translation office.
The brothers were thrilled, and they were amazed to think that a brother would travel all
the way from the United States, come to Lusac, Mozambia, and then have to travel another
thousand kilometers in the bush to the interior of the country in order to talk to them.
They couldn't believe it, and they're very impressed.
Traveling over his years worked very hard to faithfully serve isolated congregations, and
we've got a lot of these in the bush of Africa.
Now one couple serves a circuit with very deep sand.
They travel by ox cart between congregations.
Now I'd like you to use your imagination and come with them on a recent trip that they
made, and this is real.
We start the journey after sunset, because it's cooler them.
After a few hours, the axle breaks.
Now two of the brothers that were accompanying them started walking back to try to find
another ox cart.
So now imagine you are there in the middle of the bush.
You prepare for the night, but then the brother with us has spotted lion tracks, fresh lion
tracks in the sand, and it sends a shiver up just by.
You tie up the oxen a little away away so that the lions will go for them first, you
hope, and then you build a big fire to scare them away if they come.
If you'll save your lie down, but then it pours with rain, the fires put out, you're
soaking wet, afraid, cold, miserable, and you pray that you're over for his protection.
You spend a rough night, then at four in the morning you hear their whip, a crackable
whip, and it's brothers coming with another ox cart.
You continue your journey.
You arrive at midday the next day, relieved and happy to have made it.
So you can see that's just one little example there of what some of our traveling overseers
have to put up with.
Now in this circuit, there's no internet.
There's no cell phone coverage.
Brothers have never seen JW.org and they haven't had the privilege of watching JW broadcasting
either.
So you can see we've still got a long way to go.
In the town's things are improving and we look forward to better times ahead.
So brothers, it's been a pleasure to bring this report to you and to bring the warm love
and greetings from your brothers in Sanmehameha.